# DataScience Projects
This project uses different dataset for six different data science projects that are based on: (i) Exploratory Data Analysis for ML, (ii) Supervised ML: Regression, (iii) Supervised ML: Classification, (iv) Unsupervised ML, (v) Deep Learning and Reinforcement Learning, (vi) Specialized Models: Time Series and Survival Analysis.

* DataScienceP1.ipynb: This file has the code based on the exploratory data analysis concept and it used the housing dataset from Kaggle. I did the data exploration, data cleaning, feature engineering, hypothesis test as welll as further steps for data analysis.
* DataScienceP2.ipynb: This file has the code based on the Regression concepts (also did exploratory data analysis). I then used linear regrassion, polynomial regressarion, Ridge and Lesso regression and evaluated their performance by the performance matrics. For interpretability, I searched the features that dreive the prediction valaue.
* DataScienceP3.ipynb: This files has the code which is used logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine (SVM), and different ensemble-based approaches (also did exploratory data analysis). I find the model that output the best classification accuracy. Along with the classification accuracy, I also focused on the interpretability of the model.
* DataScienceP4.ipynb: This file has the code which is used to find the pattern of the data set (also did exploratory data analysis). I used different clustering algorithms: K-means clustering, Hierarchical clustering, Density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN). Moreover, I also used dimensionality reduction algorithms to reduce the dimension of the data. I then ploted the data in the two-dimensional plot to show the data clusters.
 DataScienceP5.ipynb: This file has the code which is used a deep neural network to classify the Touchalytics dataset that was downloaded from the link: http://www.mariofrank.net/touchalytics/. To get the best classification accuracy I tuned the different hyper-parameters such as network architecture, learning rate, optimization algorithm, etc. 
* DataScienceP6.ipynb: This file has the code for time series forecasting. I downloaded the dataset from the link: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jbrownlee/Datasets/master/airline-passengers.csv. To get the best prediction accuracy, I tryed different smoothing approaches to reduct the noise and then built the model for the prediction. However, as these approaches failed to make prediction, I then used deep neural network based RNN and LSTM. I also tuned different hyper-parameters of this two models.
